---
layout: post
title:      "The Importance of Visualizing Data "
date:       2020-04-26 22:43:23 +0000
permalink:  the_importance_of_visualizing_data
---




We as humans are typically visual beings – our first impressions are almost always initially visual. Data can be overwhelming to understand. Let's take, for instance, a spreadsheet; unless you're in the accounting field or data science, a spreadsheet can be very overwhelming to decipher. Here is where data visualization becomes necessary in translating immense volumes of data into a neat and easily decipherable image.  Are you questioning the influence of graphs? Take one look at any nightly news segment, and you're sure to find at least one form of data visualization, whether it is a bar graph, pie chart, or even merely a map with different locations shown with pinpoints. Data visualizing is incredibly useful.

A secure method for a data scientist to visualize different data sets in Python, whether it's a spreadsheet or multiple compiled dictionaries of data, is to utilize matplot. Matplot is an easily installable library for Python that allows the coder to visualize data and even further analyze data in some cases. Another useful library for python data scientists to utilize is Folium. Let's take, for instance, the use of plotting different locations with pinpoints and radius circles on a map. In the current status of the world, these data visuals are used to showcase hotspots for the COVID-19 virus. The first step is deciding our data pool. Will we want to show the full country or merely the cases within one state? After we define our target data pool, we can move forward with displaying these hotspots in a way that is easy to understand is to compile data. Our Second step is presenting this data is data cultivation. Hospitals and states across the United States of America have supplied a public data source that is updated daily with new diagnosed cases and deaths. We can transfer this information into a spreadsheet or, in the case of the data scientist, compile it into a dictionary (some states even have this information downloadable in a CSV). After all of this data is entered, we can extrapolate the geographic coordinates of each city or state (whichever is more relevant to our data pool) and plot those points on the map. 

To plot these points on the map first, we must import Folium and define the map area. If we are focusing on a particular state, let's say Florida we would input the centermost coordinates in Florida and set the zoom level to the full state using numerical values. After doing this we must write a function that plots the points we have data for on the map. For example, if we have data organized by the city, we must write a function that would play pinpoints on all the cities in Florida for which we have data. We can do thus by using the '.marker.' function in Folium. We then begin to formulate a cluster map and set different parameters to match our desired visual. Upon placing our primary location visual, we can start to write functions and assign these functions to these data points and set clustered values to equal true. By taking these steps, we will create a very easy to understand map that shows the cases of COVID-19 present in the designated area. 
This is just one way that data can be transformed into a more readily accessible visual that is easy for people to understand. Another great example is the upcoming census, a perfect chance for data scientists to be able to create maps showing the concentration of population in various areas of the country or plot the ratio of children to classrooms across the country. Data helps to provide us so much information; sometimes, it just needs to be made more palatable by visualization.


